### ICMP
 - 1 function is like an echo or ping, simple send and reply
  - used by traceroute to map and and measure path and delays between routers/link points

### SMTP
 - Protocol for sending emails.

### IP
 - Every device that is connected to the internet is at least followng the IP protocol, they can ALL speak IP.


#### End to end principle
 - Certain functions should only be handled by the endpoints
  - [Example]: Decrytpion should occur only at the destination, not each stop (link) along the journey.
  - If there was a packet lost along the the way, the intended endpoint would request the missing packets directly from the sender
  - Phone Networks: dumb edge services, intelligent network
  - Internet: Dumb network, intelligent edge services.
  - Sometimes violated as performance enhancement.
- Leads to the "hourglass" design of protocols:
 - Only 1 protocol at the internet level.
  - Minimal required elements at narrowest point.
#### Hourglass Design
 - Waist expands at transport layer
 - Two dominant services layered above
  - TCP: Transmission Control Protocol
   - Conneciton-oriented service
   - Reliable - in-order bytestream data transfer
    - Acknowledgemnets and retransmissions
   - Flow Control - Sender won't overwhelm reciever
   - Congestion control
    - Senderss won't overwhlem network
   - **What uses TCP**: HTTP, Telnet, SMTP, NNTP, BGP, IMAP, POP.
  - UDP: User DataGram Protocol
   - Connectionless service
   - **What uses UDP**: SNMP, NTP, NFS, RTP (streaming media, IP telephony, teleconferencing), multicast applications.

##### End-to-end/Hourglass design, Pros and Cons
- The good
 - Basic network functinality allowd for extremely quick adoption and deployment using simple devices.
- The Bad
 - New network features and fucntionalty are imposible to deploy and, requiring widespread adoption within the network
 - IP multicast, QoS
