## Scheduling:

#### Batch running -- early method to run instructions and schedule processes on the CPU. There is no scheduler, it just runs whatever is entered into it.

### Types of Context Switch
- Cooperative - Synchronous - Jobs know when to yield, also aware of other processes, voluntary yield.
- Interrupts - Asynchronous - Jobs do **NOT** know when to yield, work on a clock, involuntary yield.

### Initial Constraints:
- These represent constraints on early systems and systems today
1. Each job finishes within the same time period.
2. All jobs arrive at the same time.
3. Each job runs to completion once scheduled.
4. No I/O
5. Run time for each job as known a priori. The CPU knows how much CPU time needed to complete it.

- As systems modernized some of these constraints were relaxed.
### Before Interrupts -- When this 5 constraints hold
- First come fist serve (FCFS) scheduling is optimal when all 5 constraints hold.
- Shortest Job First (SJF) scheduling, all jobs arrive a priori, but the times are different. So Constraint 1 is relaxed bu 5 still holds.
  -  This reduces the Average turnaround time
- Shortest Job Next (SJN) This allows late arrivals (constraint 2 relaxed)
  - The scheduler now has the overhead of sorting the process list each time it returns from a process to the scheduler.
  - Long processes risk suffering from starvation!!

### After Interrupts
- We can now remove constraint 3 (jobs run to completion)
- Shortest time to completion first (STCF), Still starvation for longer jobs. Sorts jobs by amount of timeslice that they use
- Round Robin (RR), uses FIFO approach supports the presence of interrupts
  - Each job is comprised of many side-jobs based on *arrival*
  - Time slice in length.
  - At fixed intervals:
    - Remove job from CPU
    - Put at back of queue
    - Take a new job from the front of the queue.
  - Removes need for time to completion
  - Good for interactive jobs

